Jason: "Hey, I just I'm from Boise Idaho. What? Part of the world are you and Wackym from so? "

Shawn: "Well actually all three of us grew up in Frankfort. Kentucky. Sure. Right. But Randy and I are moving. We're all based in the u.s. now and I'm actually in Dallas right now and I'm moving to San Francisco in in about two weeks."

Jason: "I was born and raised in San Francisco, man. You're going to have a nice night out of the country. Yeah. Arkansas is a very, very beautiful state. Not talk, not talked about very much. "

Wackym: "It is it is."

Jason: "All right. So do you see? You guys know that's that's why and Wilbur Wright. I talk a lot. So I know we have 30 minutes. If you guys need to go over 30 minutes, I got time for you. No problem. And if I talk too much, just tell me. Stop awesome. What would you really do? "

Shawn: "Well, it really appreciate you being candid with us there. Oh yeah, um yes, it would love to understand first a little bit about your background. Can you tell us more about your living situation and you have any dependents?"

Jason: "Yeah. You know I'm married. Let's see. Married have two kids 8 years old girl. Five-year-old boy. Oh boy, you're at that age and then yeah, we own our house. Now we just recently paid off the mortgage in full no more. Yeah, a big congratulations. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I had an inheritance lately. So we took all that money and paid off the mortgage. Yeah. So we own our single family home. Here in the Boise area, we have quite a few assets. I'm at the stage now. I think my wife and I were going to go see a financial planner pretty soon here because we're, you know, we're doing retirement, don't want to make any mistakes, you know, you know, we want to make sure that we retire, you know, we can live. Okay. Now I have to worry about bills and inch health insurance and blah, so, you know, so We're at the point now, where probably have to see a financial planner, but your identity. "

Shawn: "You don't have a financial planner yet"

Jason: "Not yet"

Shawn: "But have you at any point in the past?"

Jason: "No, no, okay, no, "

Shawn: "got it, I'm sorry. You said you said because what was your reason for not having a financial planner yet? "

Jason: "You know I we thought we could learn it on our own. But it's just not working when we don't have enough expertise in this area to do this correctly, you know, and I'm if we're both 53, my wife and I have so we need to get for our kids to, but we need to get this, right? So we're going to, we're going to turn to The Experts financial planner to help us out. "

Shawn: "Awesome and Logistics. Got it. Got it. And when it comes to retirement, I guess, when are you looking to retire? And how do you feel about retirement?"

Jason: "Well how I feel about retirements is, there's two things, one excitement, right? You hat, but at the same time, I'm scared because I want to make sure that everything we've got. We'll take care of us. You know, I've seen my in-laws, they struggle because with their retirement, and the way it in the economy is so there's fear, there's fear, there's excitement and fear, and what was the other question, I'm sorry."

Shawn: "Yeah. So when you're looking to retire, what's your own? What's"

Jason: "Yeah. It's a good question because I work. I work from home for a for a company, but think about starting my own business. So I think, I think that's going to be up to me. But late 60s, early, 60s, you know, if our health is okay, my wife, she wants to retire soon, so she can be home all the time with the kids too. So you know I'm going to say that. The 60s."

Shawn: "Got it. Got it. And Let's go into your retirement savings and and, and sort of your assets generally. So you mentioned, you've got a home that you've paid off. What's the what's the value of the home today? "

Jason: "Yeah, wrote some stuff down for you. Somebody sent me a little it's all. "

Shawn: "Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah. So let's start with the first couple questions. What is your income? And your household income"

Jason: "After taxes, for me? It's 95k."

Shawn: "Got it after taxes, how much would it be before taxes?"

Jason: "Say 115"

Shawn: "Oh 115, Got it"

Jason: "My wife, she's a nurse. So I think between the both of us we make about after taxes about 155. Okay?"

Shawn: "What about your liability? So credit card, balances any other kinds of loans or anything like that. "

Jason: "You know. That's a good thing that we're very blessed that so that's why we we've taken care of all our debts, except for my student loan. But no more credit card, balances 0, mortgage, Zero. You know. So we pay property taxes and insurance and stuff like that bills, but no student loan is about five grand. I got left, but I'm probably just going to pay that off about five grand, five thousand for my student loan. So liability is very small, we're very blessed."

Shawn: "Yeah, got it. Yep. And you mentioned you mentioned in the, in the survey screener questions that you pay off above the minimum of your credit card balances. But not the full. Does that mean that you? Yeah. Well I guess. Yeah. What is that what does that amount to? "

Jason: "Yeah well we always thought that paying the minimum was kind of like throwing money away, you know? And so We decide if we can afford it and then I had an inheritance recently. If we can afford it might as well pay above so we can get that debt down sooner because we, huh, nobody likes to be in debt, right? So yeah, so we always paid above the minimum to try to get that balance down, got it. "

Shawn: "And do you have any credit card debt now?"

Jason: "know as of today, sir cya last week we paid it all off. "

Shawn: "Only interesting, interesting and let's see. A two weeks ago. What would it look like?"

Jason: "Oh man, it was like, man. That's what happens when you have a family and kids I was about Seventeen altogether. 17K."

Shawn: "yeah before the inheritance, what did that balance Look like on a monthly basis? Was it going up? Was it going down? "

Jason: "Yeah it was going down. Yeah I think maybe earlier in the year because we had some health issues with our way. With our son stuff medical, you know, Insurance United States is health insurance and so we had a balance at one point this year of about 35 K in credit cards."

Shawn: "got it, got it. "

Jason: "So it started going down, it got to 17 and we just paid it off recently."

Shawn: "Got it. Got it from The Inheritance that you mentioned. You receive recently. Got it, can you tell me more about no other loans, right? If paid off your mortgage, nothing else there. "

Jason: "Yeah. No, other laws. Except for my student loan"

Shawn: "Got it. So 5 k on the student loan"

Jason: "Yep that's it"

Shawn: "Can you tell me more about the asset side about any? Ira's that you have, as well as your current 401K balance. "

Jason: "Yeah, you know, that's, that's interesting with the whole area. My wife has a naira. I have a 401k, So, and I've had the role that over from a previous job but roughly, I would say because this, I've been doing this for a long time. 53. Right? About 112. I'd say 112,000 in my 41 k."

Shawn: "Got it and how much would be in your wife's 401k? "

Jason: "I put 7 percent in and my employer matches"

Shawn: "Okay, so you put in seven percent 7 percent, got it. And what's the max? So what is your employer's 401K policy in terms of how much do they match up to what amount"
