Shawn: "Good morning Jason, its great to meet you."

Jason: "Great to meeting you too. So I know we have 30 minutes. If you guys need to go over 30 minutes, I got time for you. No problem. And if I talk too much, just tell me. Stop awesome. What would you like to do?"

Shawn: "Well, I really appreciate you being candid with us. We'd love to understand first a little bit about your background. Can you tell us more about your living situation and you have any dependents?"

Jason: "Yeah. You know I'm married. Let's see. Married have two kids 11 year old girl. Four-year-old boy. Oh boy, you're at that age and then yeah, we own our house. Now we just recently paid off the mortgage in full no more. Yeah, a big congratulations. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I had an inheritance lately. So we took all that money and paid off the mortgage. Yeah. So we own our single family home. Here in the Boise area, we have quite a few assets. I'm at the stage now. I think my wife and I were going to go see a financial planner pretty soon here because we're, you know, we're doing retirement, don't want to make any mistakes, you know, you know, we want to make sure that we retire, you know, we can live. Okay. Now I have to worry about bills and inch health insurance and blah, so, you know, so We're at the point now, where probably have to see a financial planner, but your identity. "

Shawn: "You don't have a financial planner yet"

Jason: "Not yet"

Shawn: "But have you at any point in the past?"

Jason: "No, no, okay, no, "

Shawn: "got it, I'm sorry. You said you said because what was your reason for not having a financial planner yet? "

Jason: "You know I we thought we could learn it on our own. But it's just not working when we don't have enough expertise in this area to do this correctly, you know, and I'm if we're both 56, my wife and I have so we need to get for our kids to, but we need to get this, right? So we're going to, we're going to turn to The Experts financial planner to help us out. "

Shawn: "Awesome and Logistics. Got it. Got it. And when it comes to retirement, I guess, when are you looking to retire? And how do you feel about retirement?"

Jason: "Well how I feel about retirements is, there's two things, one excitement, right? You hat, but at the same time, I'm scared because I want to make sure that everything we've got. We'll take care of us. You know, I've seen my in-laws, they struggle because with their retirement, and the way it in the economy is so there's fear, there's fear, there's excitement and fear, and what was the other question, I'm sorry."

Shawn: "Yeah. So when you're looking to retire, what's your own? What's"

Jason: "Yeah. It's a good question because I work. I work from home for a for a company, but think about starting my own business. So I think, I think that's going to be up to me. But late 60s, early, 60s, you know, if our health is okay, my wife, she wants to retire soon, so she can be home all the time with the kids too. So you know I'm going to say that. The 60s."

Shawn: "Got it. Got it. And Let's go into your retirement savings and and, and sort of your assets generally. So you mentioned, you've got a home that you've paid off. What's the what's the value of the home today? "

Jason: "Yeah, wrote some stuff down for you. Somebody sent me a little it's all. "

Shawn: "Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah. So let's start with the first couple questions. What is your income? And your household income"

Jason: "After taxes, for me? It's 85k."

Shawn: "Got it after taxes, how much would it be before taxes?"

Jason: "Say 105"

Shawn: "Oh 105, Got it"

Jason: "My wife, she's a nurse. So I think between the both of us we make about after taxes about 145. Okay?"

Shawn: "What about your liability? So credit card, balances any other kinds of loans or anything like that. "

Jason: "You know. That's a good thing that we're very blessed that so that's why we we've taken care of all our debts, except for my student loan. But no more credit card, balances 0, mortgage, Zero. You know. So we pay property taxes and insurance and stuff like that bills, but no student loan is about ten grand. I got left, but I'm probably just going to pay that off about ten grand, ten thousand for my student loan. So liability is very small, we're very blessed."

Shawn: "Yeah, got it. Yep. And you mentioned you mentioned in the, in the survey screener questions that you pay off above the minimum of your credit card balances. But not the full. Does that mean that you? Yeah. Well I guess. Yeah. What is that what does that amount to? "

Jason: "Yeah well we always thought that paying the minimum was kind of like throwing money away, you know? And so We decide if we can afford it and then I had an inheritance recently. If we can afford it might as well pay above so we can get that debt down sooner because we, huh, nobody likes to be in debt, right? So yeah, so we always paid above the minimum to try to get that balance down, got it. "

Shawn: "And do you have any credit card debt now?"

Jason: "know as of today, sir cya last week we paid it all off. "

Shawn: "Only interesting, interesting and let's see. A two weeks ago. What would it look like?"

Jason: "Oh man, it was like, man. That's what happens when you have a family and kids I was about Seventeen altogether. 27K."

Shawn: "yeah before the inheritance, what did that balance Look like on a monthly basis? Was it going up? Was it going down? "

Jason: "Yeah it was going down. Yeah I think maybe earlier in the year because we had some health issues with our way. With our son stuff medical, you know, Insurance United States is health insurance and so we had a balance at one point this year of about 45 K in credit cards."

Shawn: "got it, got it. "

Jason: "So it started going down, it got to 27 and we just paid it off recently."

Shawn: "Got it. Got it from The Inheritance that you mentioned. You receive recently. Got it, can you tell me more about no other loans, right? If paid off your mortgage, nothing else there. "

Jason: "Yeah. No, other laws. Except for my student loan"

Shawn: "Got it. So 10 k on the student loan"

Jason: "Yep that's it"

Shawn: "Can you tell me more about the asset side about any? Ira's that you have, as well as your current 401K balance. "

Jason: "Yeah, you know, that's, that's interesting with the whole area. My wife has a naira. I have a 401k, So, and I've had the role that over from a previous job but roughly, I would say because this, I've been doing this for a long time. 56. Right? About 138. I'd say 138,000 in my 41 k."

Shawn: "Got it and how much would be in your wife's 401k? "

Jason: "I put 6 percent in and my employer matches"

Shawn: "Okay, so you put in six percent 6 percent, got it. And what's the max? So what is your employer's 401K policy in terms of how much do they match up to what amount"

Jason: "Oh yeah, Dave match they match. These are actually my employers pretty is very unique. They match up to 5%. "

Shawn: "Okay got it. If you put in six they put in five. God had got it. So 141 match until five percent. "

Jason: "Yeah the very very generous. My job doesn't pay a ton of money but they are very generous with their benefits. "

Shawn: "got it. So, in the questionnaire, I believe you mentioned that say you're paying a little but not the maximum match but it, I guess. Yeah, I'm curious. Why why you believe that you were not paying the maximum employment? "

Jason: "Okay, well I think I allow I think 12 percent 12 I think they allow that but because my wife has an IRA we decided for me, just ask. Oh, it's about six percent. "

Shawn: "Oh, I see, I see "

Jason: "yeah, so I think, you know, I think before I met my wife, 15 years ago, I was doing about 12%. And then I married, you know how it is when you have kids and you have bills and house, you know, you gotta save money and so I cut down to 6% but they were still willing to match my company 5%"

Shawn: "So, if you were at 12%, how much would they match?"

Jason: "I think, you know, I think they matched 10, they were very generous"

Shawn: "So you're actually missing out to some extent on that extra 5%. Then. "

Jason: "Yeah, I am. But you know what? It's like throwing money away. But right now, I think because this inheritance death we got I'm gonna change that back to. I think fifteen percent might as well. Right? "

Shawn: "Yeah, I think absolutely. Absolutely. So that's that makes a lot of sense. And can you tell me more about the inheritance in terms of? Yeah. What, what was, what would the assets that you received?"

Jason: "Yeah with the death of an aunt who was who was wealthy. She left me property up in the mountains in Idaho. up near Hyndman and also, Quite a bit of cash because we were very close growing up and everything. So yeah we she left me quite a bit of a money-wise and so we decided to take that and just start paying off bills, start doing stuff. You know, the other thing that we want to do is do a 529 with the kids for college education. That's important. You know everything is about the kids now. Which is great. So yeah. So the inheritance was cash and all left in a while, and then a property up in the Idaho mountains."

Shawn: "Got it, got it first off. Sorry, to hear about your aunt, but also happy to hear that you're able to pay off your debts. So can you tell me was the amount of the cash that you received, as well as the value of the property?"

Jason: "that was roughly Roughly 85. "

Shawn: "Okay, 8:55, okay"

Jason: "In cash 85. Yes it was. "

Shawn: "85 in cash, got it"

Jason: "That was it had to be taxed, even inheritance is taxed. So yeah, it was about 85 K"

Shawn: "85, and then the property, how much would that be? "

Jason: "Oh man, I'm telling you, it's It's worth almost two million dollars. Because Idaho, the mountains in Idaho, very very very, very, very expensive Rich. Yep. "

Shawn: "Okay. Great great. Do you tell me about any other assets, you have? So you mentioned your, how much is the home value again?"

Jason: "The home value is 450. "

Shawn: "450, okay, got it, he's got 450 home, you've got these assets, you've inherited, you've got the iris 401K balance of 138. Any other assets? "

Jason: "Yeah I got back when I was in the military back when I was 20 years old man 35 years ago I invested in a company little known at the time it was called Microsoft. So I had stocks. You know that I was overseas, I just kept putting money in some stocks and so assets. Yeah I got assets and that's because of those stocks that I still have. Very, very lucky. I was very lucky. "

Shawn: "Great. Great. Yeah. And, and how much was that, or how much is it worth today? "

Jason: "I guess it's worth half a million. "

Shawn: "Okay. So you've got about 500 K roughly. "

Jason: "Yeah. "

Shawn: "And do you still have the shares or have you sold them?"

Jason: "I've sold a few over the years but yeah I started out it was like less than a thousand dollars. Back in 1990 and now it's Yeah, so I still I still say yep. So all this stuff, you know, is going to be for us for retirement. And for the kids, we just got to learn how to put it all together, you know?"

Shawn: "Yep. Yep. So you mentioned in your thoughts and retirement that you're trying to think of ways in which you can save enough money to survive with the decent retirement. So I guess, yeah, what are you? What are your thoughts now, given? Where you're at in terms of how, how do you believe you're going to be able to survive with the kind of lifestyle that you're looking to have during retirement? "

Jason: "Yeah, we're very blessed. We're very blessed guy, you know. But seeing what my in-laws go through, you know, with all the bills that when you get older, you got health insurance, you have to pay, you know, my in-laws, they pay 700 a month, you know, just for their health insurance, and that's with Medicare. So, you know, I think there's not enough, there's never enough money, amen? Right. There's never enough money, you know, for retirement. And so we want to live, we're not rich. We don't want to be rich, we just want to be able to Be comfortable. So, what a retirement we're just we just have that fear that money will run out, no matter how much we got right now. And we also worried that we will make a mistake down the road and we didn't do something right, you know, like when right now and so, so that's where the Fear Factor comes in, you know, that's why we're going to hire professional because we want to make sure we're doing things, right? So, you know, we just want to live where we can pay the bills. Everything is going to get more expensive nowadays. United States is not going to get any cheaper. So, right now, I think we're on the right track with everything we have. We just need help putting it all together to make, to maximize what we have. "

Shawn: "Got it, that makes a lot of sense. "

Jason: "And the kids, the kids, everything is about the kids, the kids are going to need things when they grow up, you know. So you know we want money for the kids too"

Shawn: "Got it. Got it and I forgot to ask your wife. Sorry how much is that worth right now? "

Jason: "Yeah. She after or her salary? "

Shawn: "oh her ira"

Jason: "Oh her ira I think is almost 120. Yes, she's been working since she was 16, so yeah. "

Shawn: "Okay. Great, great. How do you and your, I guess your wife divide up thinking about retirement. "

Jason: "Good question. Good question. You know, we had this inheritance and all of a sudden were like whoa what do we do with all this? Do we put it all in a bag?"

Shawn: "Was the inheritance expected or completely unexpected or"

Jason: "it was completely unexpected. I thought I thought my aunt might give me the property you know and we're going to we're going to keep, we're going to keep the property. Yeah I did we weren't expecting cash or nothing like that so that was unexpected. Yeah, so we we, you know, we thought we, we putting all this money into bank accounts, you know, that's great, but it's just that money is just sitting there. So we have all this money in a bank account and it's just not doing anything so to meet to us. That's not really planning for retirement"

Shawn: "got it. And just so I got the number, right? You said you have 85k or was that inheritance from?"

Jason: "From the inheritance"

Shawn: "So that that cash is just sitting in the bank account. "

Jason: "Yeah. After we pay it off or bills about 50 about 50k"

Shawn: "So 50k just sitting there and you're still trying to figure out what to do with that. "

Jason: "Yeah, you know, and especially with the economy today. So, you know, there's thoughts of investment. You know, investing you know but what is the best plan for us? We we don't know where we're kind of lost so that's what we're going to see a financial planner you know. I mean yeah and then I have those stocks from Microsoft, you know that I could use, you know something here and there for you to help with the kids college education, everything costs money, and everything is gonna you think you have enough money and all of a sudden you don't. So I think investing is something that we're going to start looking into more. And maybe an annuity, if we can figure out how that works"

Shawn: "Got it. Got it. And you mentioned, a 529 plan and something you're looking to start setting up. Do you already have a 529? Or are you looking to now? "

Jason: "We haven't set up the 529 yet yet. Yeah we should have but at this point we'd be foolish not to. Especially our daughters eleven now so and our sons four. So we got to get going on that."

Shawn: "Got it. And then what about hsas? Are you? I guess. Yeah. What's your approach to saving for healthcare?"

Jason: "You see, that's that, that is, I'm not good at the healthcare, understanding all that works a healthcare savings account. I'm clueless. And that's another reason we have to go to a financial advisor because that's very important. And I really don't understand how that works with retirement. You know, I can talk to my father-in-law, he knows more about that stuff and his financial planner, that's where we're going to. We want to go see as my father-in-law's financial planner, but I don't understand. All that stuff, very much and that actually scares me more than any. Other thing is, the healthcare stuff when I retire"

Shawn: "Got it, got it and and and the fact that your wife is a nurse sort of does it help with with that or surprisingly less than you would think?"

Jason: "I think its surprisingly less. she's a good nurse, she's a good nurse."

Shawn: "Yeah system's just complex"

Jason: "It's too complex. It makes me like you want to yell"

Shawn: "Yep. Yep. Absolutely, great. Do we have any other questions Randy will burn, before, I jump into the product"

Jason: "Ask away, Randy ask away Wackym what you got? "

Randy: "Yeah just wanted to check in on how often you check your retirement account. Like how often do you log into? I don't know if it's a Vanguard or Fidelity account or the like and kind of check in on those balances and how you track your, your financial status."

Jason: "Yeah, I'll be honest, the Fidelity's, what we use. I check in almost every day because I'm trying to learn more and more and more. It's at least weekly but like sometimes it's every day, I'm trying to learn research. Wrap my head around it. So I ask you a question, right? I'd say almost it's at least weekly. I'm checking things out."

Wackym: "Okay. And and what kind of investment options have you chosen do?"

Jason: "well, maybe swell not a whole lot, just Just do the 401K and my wife with hurairah but, you know"

Shawn: "The 401k and the ira, what is what I guess funds are those are, those are sitting in"

Jason: "oh mutual funds"

Shawn: "mutual funds got it, and in any specific kind of mutual fund like Target date funds, for example, or yeah? Yeah, "

Jason: "yeah, EFTs right?"

Shawn: "yeah"

Jason: "which is complex in its own way. That's why I like we need help. I mean sometimes I wonder if I'm doing the right thing. I listened to the robo advisor on Fidelity. I'm like man I hope I'm doing the right thing especially with EFT s because that confuses me too. You guys, you guys know all this stuff man. You guys like for the normal guys like I gotta go to college just learn all this stuff all over, you know, for four years? "

Shawn: "Absolutely, absolutely infidelity, I mean, I put my money with the Fidelity Robo advisor, my IRA so we'll see how it goes. "

Jason: "I like Fidelity, I think it's great."

Shawn: "Great. And actually one more question on your FICO score. What is your FICO score?"

Jason: "760"

Shawn: "760. Got it. Great, well thank you so much for your time Jason."

Jason: "Thank you too"

Shawn: "Have a great rest of the day. Goodbye."
