Jason: "Hey, I just I'm from Denver Colorado. What? Part of the world are you and Wackym from so? "

Shawn: "Well actually all three of us grew up in Mumbai. India. Sure. Right. But Randy and I are moving. We're all based in the u.s. now and I'm actually in Dallas right now and I'm moving to San Francisco in in about two weeks."

Jason: "I was born and raised in San Francisco, man. You're going to have a nice night out of the country. Yeah. Arkansas is a very, very beautiful state. Not talk, not talked about very much. "

Wackym: "It is it is."

Jason: "All right. So do you see? You guys know that's that's why and Wilbur Wright. I talk a lot. So I know we have 30 minutes. If you guys need to go over 30 minutes, I got time for you. No problem. And if I talk too much, just tell me. Stop awesome. What would you really do? "

Shawn: "Well, it really appreciate you being candid with us there. Oh yeah, um yes, it would love to understand first a little bit about your background. Can you tell us more about your living situation and you have any dependents?"

Jason: "Yeah. You know I'm married. Let's see. Married have two kids 8 years old girl. Five-year-old boy. Oh boy, you're at that age and then yeah, we own our house. Now we just recently paid off the mortgage in full no more. Yeah, a big congratulations. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I had an inheritance lately. So we took all that money and paid off the mortgage. Yeah. So we own our single family home. Here in the Denver area, we have quite a few assets. I'm at the stage now. I think my wife and I were going to go see a financial planner pretty soon here because we're, you know, we're doing retirement, don't want to make any mistakes, you know, you know, we want to make sure that we retire, you know, we can live. Okay. Now I have to worry about bills and inch health insurance and blah, so, you know, so We're at the point now, where probably have to see a financial planner, but your identity. "

Shawn: "You don't have a financial planner yet"

Jason: "Not yet"

Shawn: "But have you at any point in the past?"

Jason: "No, no, okay, no, "

Shawn: "got it, I'm sorry. You said you said because what was your reason for not having a financial planner yet? "

Jason: "You know I we thought we could learn it on our own. But it's just not working when we don't have enough expertise in this area to do this correctly, you know, and I'm if we're both 53, my wife and I have so we need to get for our kids to, but we need to get this, right? So we're going to, we're going to turn to The Experts financial planner to help us out. "

Shawn: "Awesome and Logistics. Got it. Got it. And when it comes to retirement, I guess, when are you looking to retire? And how do you feel about retirement?"

Jason: "Well how I feel about retirements is, there's two things, one excitement, right? You hat, but at the same time, I'm scared because I want to make sure that everything we've got. We'll take care of us. You know, I've seen my in-laws, they struggle because with their retirement, and the way it in the economy is so there's fear, there's fear, there's excitement and fear, and what was the other question, I'm sorry."

Shawn: "Yeah. So when you're looking to retire, what's your own? What's"

Jason: "Yeah. It's a good question because I work. I work from home for a for a company, but think about starting my own business. So I think, I think that's going to be up to me. But late 60s, early, 60s, you know, if our health is okay, my wife, she wants to retire soon, so she can be home all the time with the kids too. So you know I'm going to say that. The 60s."

Shawn: "Got it. Got it. And Let's go into your retirement savings and and, and sort of your assets generally. So you mentioned, you've got a home that you've paid off. What's the what's the value of the home today? "

Jason: "Yeah, wrote some stuff down for you. Somebody sent me a little it's all. "

Shawn: "Yes, yes. Yeah, yeah. So let's start with the first couple questions. What is your income? And your household income"

Jason: "After taxes, for me? It's 95k."

Shawn: "Got it after taxes, how much would it be before taxes?"

Jason: "Say 115"

Shawn: "Oh 115, Got it"
